
Montana memories

COUNTRY DICK MONTANA
East Coast Memorial Bash
TRAMPS CAF=C9 - Dec. 4

by Al Muzer
        NYC - It was an emotional, tear-stained evening of sadness, pain,
lingering disbelief, bursts of laughter, wild stories, fond remembrances,
mysterious power outages and the shared heartbreak of friends brought
together to say good-bye to the late Dan McLain (aka Country Dick Montana)
of The Beat Farmers.
        Born May 11, 1955, the drummer/vocalist/songwriter died Wednesday,
Nov. 8, of an apparent heart attack during a performance before a sold-out
crowd at The Long Horn, a bar in Whistler, British Columbia, Canada.
        Best known for officiating at occasional songwriting partner Mojo
Nixon's 1989 wedding (which included a high-speed go-kart race), his
long-time association with Blasters Dave and Phil Alvin, a misguided
reverence for Tom Jones and such joyously single-minded tunes as: "Are You
Drinkin' With Me Jesus," "Happy Boy," "Gettin' Drunk" and "Beer Ain't
Drinkin'"; Montana, who underwent an operation for thyroid cancer in 1990
and survived a recent throat cancer scare, was negotiating a distribution
contract for an already recorded solo album when he died.
        The mischievous spirit of Montana made itself felt early-on as odd,
unexplainable electrical problems plagued an appropriately-casual opening
set from Beat Farmer tour-mates, The Health and Happiness Show.
        During the brief set-change and a shoulder-shrugging search for the
never-located electrical malfunction; Country Dick videos and songs from
Montana's pending solo effort enthralled a crowd that included: Smithereens
drummer Dennis Diken and guitarist Jim Babjak, staff members of Bar/None
and Sector 2 Records, Tramp's owner Steve Weitzman (who donated his club
for the event) and 150-or-so folks who'd never met before, but who'd seen
each other at Beat Farmer shows over the years.
        As the Connecticut-based Big Bad Johns wailed-out a fiery set that
included original tunes and, with Beat Farmer Joey Harris on guitar and
vocals, a rousing version of "Death Train" and Country Dick signature tune,
"Baby's Liquor'd Up"; audience members passed-around fuzzy photos of
Montana and shared hazy stories about their encounters with the man.
        "He really was one hell of a guy," exclaimed Diken. "We were lucky
and got to tour with the Beat Farmers a couple of times," the drummer
reminisced, "and I just never got over being amazed at the warmth and love
in the man and at the brilliance of his showmanship and drumming."
        The World Famous Blue Jays took over on stage and slammed-out
something called "Do It For Dick!" that went well with the loose, sloppy
mood in the club. In the men's room, Harris and Babjak laughed and traded
road stories and Montana memories.
        "He (Montana) was an entity entirely unto himself," laughed Babjak
as he recalled several tours the two bands had done together. "Dick showed
us how to scam beer, pot and food from fraternity houses. He was a master
actor (laughs) and a hell of a lot of fun to be around."
        Joining the 'Blue Jays for a version of Neil Young's "Powderfinger"
and a Diken-howled rendition of John Lee Hooker's "Boom Boom"; Harris
cleared the stage and soloed on the Farmer-favorites, "Girl I Almost
Married" and "What I Mean To Say"; and broke down during a tear-choked
version of the poignant, and oddly prescient ballad, "Texas Heat," he wrote
and sang with Montana on the band's final album.
        After another hour-or-so of music, drinks, stories, hugs, tales and
tears, it was time for the remaining faithful to say their good-byes and
wander-off into the cold winter night with a nagging, unnamed emptiness
deep inside.

